DATA MODELS:

        Data Model is way of organizing the data and representing the data, how to store data , how to manipulate the data into dbms.
Types of data models
1. Hierarchical data model: The organized data into a tree like structure (parent and child)
   Every child contain only one parent.
   Every parent can have multiple Childs.
   In this model easy to retrieve and maintain the data.
   In this model, it is not comfortable for maintain complex relationships.
               Ex: institute-----course----students
2. Network data model : The data is organized into nodes(entities) and edges(relationships) in that more one parent contain many childs.
   one child can have many parents.
   it flexible for compare to hierarchical model.
             Ex: one student can take multiple courses.
   Each course learn multiple students.
3. Object Oriented data Model: All data represented at objects.
   Every object can have 2 properties.
4. Relational data model: The data is stored in a table columns(fields) and row(records)
   Ex: student: sid, sname...etc

DATA MODEL LEVELS:

Conceptual Level
Logical Level
physical Level

INTRODUCTION OF SQL:
SQL stands for Structured Query Language.
it is used to communicate with databases such as MySQL, oracle, PostgreSQL.
using sql language:
To create and delete structure in database.
To insert, update, and delete data.
Easy to retrieve the data into a database.
To provide the control access.

SQL language is divided into different categories:

DDL:
 DDL Stands for Data Definition Language, it used to create and manipulate the database. such as tables, views, databases and schema. 
       1. Create
       2. alter
       3. drop
       4. truncate
       5. rename
DML:
 DML stands for Data Manipulation Language. It is used to add, update, and delete the data.
       1. insert
       2. update
       3. delete
TCL:
 TCL stands for transaction control language. It is used to transactions.
       1. commit
       2. rollback
       3. savepoint
DQL:
 DQL stands for data query language. It is used to retrieve the data.
       1. select
DCL:
    DCL stands for data control language. it is used to provide control access for database.
           1. grant
           2. revoke
